# @dromney/gear-gen
A dependency-free typescript npm package that provides a set of powerful classes that can be used to insert dynamically-generated, animateable spur gears and gear sets into your frontend.

[Example](https://incomparable-biscotti-92aa2f.netlify.app/)

## Installation
### `npm install @dromney/gear-gen`

## Intro
- Gear class
- GearSet class
- Generators
- [Styles](#styles): Provide a CSS template 



- 
- 
GearSet: a collection 

This package contains various useful gear-related classes. representing of various types of gearsa single `Gear` or `Gearset`, along with useful hooks.


### Gear
a toothed wheel that can  works with others to alter the relation between the speed of a driving mechanism (such as the engine of a vehicle) and the speed of the driven parts (the wheels).

### GearSet


### Generators
A generator is a function that may take parameters and outputs a (potentially randomized) list of gears or GearSet. Currently, there is no specific class or mechanism for this, but some examples are provided in src/generators, inluding `RandomGearsDiagonalLeft`, `RandomSpiralGears`, and `RandomBackAndForth`. Randomized gear generation is much simplified because gear positioning is automitically calculated given a connection angle. 

The following example is a simple gear generator that outputs a list of gears. All the gears have the same pitch (random 7-12) and pressure angle (random 22-32). Each gear has a random number of teeth between 8 and 20. The total number of gears is random, between 10 and 30. A parent gear is generated, and then new gears up to the total number, each gear having the previous one as its parent.

```typescript
import { Gear } from "@dromney/gear-gen";

const randomInRange = (min: number, max: number) => Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1) + min)

export function RandomGearsDiagonalExample() {
    const pitch = randomInRange(7, 12)
    const numberOfGears = randomInRange(10, 30)
    const pressureAngle = randomInRange(22, 32)

    const minNumberOfTeeth = 8
    const maxNumberOfTeeth = 20

    const minJointAngle = -90
    const maxJointAngle = 0

    const gears: Gear[] = []
    const parentGear = new Gear({
        N: randomInRange(minNumberOfTeeth, maxNumberOfTeeth),
        P: pitch,
        PADeg: pressureAngle
    })
    gears.push(parentGear)
    for (let i = 1; i <= numberOfGears; i++) {
        const gear = new Gear({
            N: randomInRange(minNumberOfTeeth, maxNumberOfTeeth),
            parent: gears[i - 1],
            jointAngleDeg: randomInRange(minJointAngle, maxJointAngle)
        })
        gears.push(gear)
    }

    return gears
}
```

Future support could be added to streamline this process and standardize GearSet output, etc.

### Styles

## Future Improvements
There is a lot of room for improvement in `GearSet`s and generator examples. A new `GearSetGenerator` class or similar could be powerful.

Rack and pinion - could be infinite or set length. If finite length, would likely need to limit a `GearSet`s rotation. Could be used for effects such as having a rack as the side of a `<div>` to make it appear as though the gear is moving the `<div>`.

## Used in
[@dromney/react-gear-gen](github.com/romneyda/react-gear-gen) (npm package) provides React components for displaying gears generated by this library, along with examples.

[@dromney/react-gear-gen-example](github.com/romneyda/react-gear-gen-example) is a live-hosted example of the above React package (see repo for link).

## Credits
Inspiration from the work of:
- Abel Vince [Gear Generator](https://geargenerator.com/#200,200,100,6,1,3,0,4,1,8,2,4,27,-90,0,0,0,0,0,0,16,4,4,27,-60,0,0,0,0,1,1,12,1,12,20,-60,0,0,0,0,2,0,60,5,12,20,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,3,-515)
- Michal Zalewski [Creating Spur Gears](https://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/gcnc/ch6/#6.2)